Smols Page Rework (#338)
SlimeVR/SlimeVR-Docs-Site: src/diy/smol-slimes/smol-hardware.md

    </tr>
</table>

[^SeedStudio]: <strong>Seeed Studio</strong> is a global open hardware manufacturer, offering electronics components, development boards, and prototyping services. Their site: [Seeed Studio Site](https://www.seeedstudio.com/).

### 🧭 Inertial Measurement Units

Some of the supported sensor modules are described on the [IMU Comparison page](imu-comparison.md).

 - BMI270
 - ICM-42688-P
 - ICM-42688-V
 - ICM-45686
 - ISM330BX
 - ISM330DHCX
 - ISM330DLC
 - LSM6DS3
 - LSM6DS3TR-C
 - LSM6DSL
 - LSM6DSM
 - LSM6DSO
 - LSM6DSR
 - LSM6DSV
 - LSM6DSV16B

### 🧲 Magnetometers
 - AK09940
 - <div class="tooltip-text-container">BMM150
    <span class="tooltip-text">Sensor driver has not been tested.</span>
   </div>
 - <div class="tooltip-text-container">BMM350
    <span class="tooltip-text">Sensor driver has not been tested.</span>
   </div>
 - IIS2MDC
 - IST8306
 - IST8308
 - LIS2MDL
 - <div class="tooltip-text-container">LIS3MDL
    <span class="tooltip-text">Sensor driver has not been tested.</span>
   </div>
 - MMC5983MA

### 🟩 Sensor Modules with IMU and Magnetometer
**Sensor Compatibility Notice**

> - **Firmware Limitations**: Current firmware does not support BMI160/BMI270 sensor modules.  

Reviewer: bmi270 is supported

> - **Hardware Restrictions**: MPU-6050-based trackers lack required features for full functionality.  

Reviewer: no? they are just imus with too poor performance (like bmi160)

- **Community Solutions**: Third-party forks with experimental support exist but are not officially maintained.  

> - **Check Compatibility**: Verify your hardware version [here](#sensor-compatibility-chart) before proceeding.

Reviewer: what do you mean by this

        <td><a href="https://store.kouno.xyz/products/icm-45686-ist8306-module">store.kouno.xyz</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>LSM6DSR + IST8306</td>
        <td><a href="https://store.kouno.xyz/products/lsm6dsr-ist8306-module">store.kouno.xyz</a></td>
    </tr>
</table>

### 🖲️ Buttons
Push buttons and momentary switches are utilized to control the tracker. The functions of this button—Reset, Calibration, Pairing, Deep Sleep, and entering DFU Mode—depend on the number of press combinations. A tracker can be equipped with either a reset button, a user-specified (SW0) button, or both.

The reset button is designed to support all functionalities. If an user-specified button (SW0) is defined, it will be utilized instead.

If a button is unavailable, tweezers can be used to short the pins for the initial tracker setup.

### 🕹️ Switches
A slide switch can be used to physically disconnect a battery. Some boards have a high standby power draw and will require a switch.

If a switch is not utilized, a tracker can enter Deep Sleep mode by pressing and holding down the user-specified button (SW0).

### 🔋 Batteries

> Batteries are rated by capacity (mAh) and have a maximum safe charging rate (C). Charging at lower rates (e.g., around 0.5C) is recommended to reduce battery stress and extend lifespan.

Reviewer: "Safe battery charging rates (C) are correlated to their rated capacity (mAh). A 100mAh battery charging at 100mA is 1C, and a 200mAh battery charging at 100mA is 0.5C. Charging at lower rates near 0.5C is recommended to reduce battery stress and extend lifespan."

### Microcontroller Boards

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Board</th>
        <th>Description</th>
        <th>Obtaining</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>SuperMini nRF52840</td>
        <td>It is a clone of the <strong>nice!nano</strong> board.</td>
        <td>Cheapest option overall.<br/>
         It is available on AliExpress with <code>compatible with nice!nano</code> or <code>Pro Micro</code> branding.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Seeed Studio XIAO nRF52840</td>
        <td>Compact board.</td>
        <td>Available on <strong>Seeed Studio</strong>[^SeedStudio].</td>
    </tr>
</table>

[^SeedStudio]: <strong>Seeed Studio</strong> is a global open hardware manufacturer, offering electronics components, development boards, and prototyping services. Their site: [Seeed Studio Site](https://www.seeedstudio.com/).

### 🧭 Inertial Measurement Units

Some of the supported sensor modules are described on the [IMU Comparison page](imu-comparison.md).

 - BMI270
 - ICM-42688-P
 - ICM-42688-V
 - ICM-45686
 - ISM330BX
 - ISM330DHCX
 - ISM330DLC
 - LSM6DS3
 - LSM6DS3TR-C
 - LSM6DSL
 - LSM6DSM
 - LSM6DSO
 - LSM6DSR
 - LSM6DSV
 - LSM6DSV16B

### 🧲 Magnetometers
 - AK09940

>  - <div class="tooltip-text-container">BMM150 ⚠️

Reviewer: these warnings are a little overbearing

    <span class="tooltip-text">Sensor driver has not been tested.</span>
   </div>
 - <div class="tooltip-text-container">BMM350 ⚠️
    <span class="tooltip-text">Sensor driver has not been tested.</span>
   </div>
 - IIS2MDC
 - IST8306
 - IST8308
 - LIS2MDL
 - <div class="tooltip-text-container">LIS3MDL ⚠️
    <span class="tooltip-text">Sensor driver has not been tested.</span>
   </div>
 - MMC5983MA

### 🟩 Sensor Modules with IMU and Magnetometer
```admonish warning
 Please note that the most common sensor modules are not supported.
```

> Why combined?

Reviewer: this doesnt seem necessary at all

- Reduces size.
- Simplifies integration.
- Ensures consistent alignment of all sensors.

##### Meia IMU + Magnetometer Modules

> Meia produces and sells IMU's with an onboard magnetometer. These have form factor suitable for stacked builds. Meia, is a member of the SlimeVR Discord.

Reviewer: why is being a member a separate sentence? it is not an important detail

Author: Hmm, for me meia being part of discord was the reason I bouth those modules. Im b9t sure I can be easy to something that valuable

Reviewer: the original wording where it is inline with the first sentence is fine

Reviewer: such as: "meia, a member of the slimevr discord, produces..."

        <td><a href="https://store.kouno.xyz/products/icm-45686-ist8306-module">store.kouno.xyz</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>LSM6DSR + IST8306</td>
        <td><a href="https://store.kouno.xyz/products/lsm6dsr-ist8306-module">store.kouno.xyz</a></td>
    </tr>
</table>

### 🖲️ Buttons
Push buttons and momentary switches are utilized to control the tracker. The functions of this button—Reset, Calibration, Pairing, Deep Sleep, and entering DFU Mode—depend on the number of press combinations. A tracker can be equipped with either a reset button, a user-specified (SW0) button, or both.

The reset button is designed to support all functionalities. If an user-specified button (SW0) is defined, it will be utilized instead.

If a button is unavailable, tweezers can be used to short the pins for the initial tracker setup.

### 🕹️ Switches
A slide switch can be used to physically disconnect a battery. Some boards have a high standby power draw and will require a switch.

If a switch is not utilized, a tracker can enter Deep Sleep mode by pressing and holding down the user-specified button (SW0).

### 🔋 Batteries

> Most boards support a 3.7V Li-ion or LiPo battery. Batteries are rated by their capacity (usually in mAh), and they also have a maximum safe charging rate—often expressed as “C.” Charging at 1C means you’re using a current equal to the battery’s capacity. For example, a 1000mAh battery charged at 1A (which is 1C) should reach full charge in about one hour. However, charging at this maximum rate can stress the battery.

Reviewer: charging time does not correlate directly to charging rate, better to remove a guess

Reviewer: also, this is a pretty long explanation of batteries, try to be more concise

For longer battery life, it’s recommended to charge at a lower rate—around 0.5C.\

> This means, for a 1000mAh battery, using a 500mA charge current. Although this slower rate will take roughly two hours to fully charge the battery, it helps reduce wear and extends its lifespan.

Reviewer: same as above

# Smol Hardware

- TOC
  {:toc}

## 🧾 Schematics

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <td>Default SuperMini Build</td>
      <td>Stacked 🥪 SuperMini Build</td>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style="width: 50%">
        <img
          src="../../assets/img/smol_slime_schematic.png"
          alt="Smol Slime Schematic"
          loading="lazy"
        />
      </td>
      <td style="width: 50%">

>         <img

Reviewer 2: Just a suggestion, you can use the `height` property for `<img>` tag on both schematics, so the table row matches both columns.

Maybe we should use the other Stacked IMU with the 4 pads on the left for I2C and save this one for the SPI section.

I am thinking of breaking the sections into `### I2C` and `### SPI` eventually.

Author: Sounds great, but not something for this PR.

Reviewer 3: Seconding this, it also makes it look quite dodgy as the image on the right is both worse definition and larger. Please unify and shrink images within tables and have them link to full sized images, especially as table formatting is garbage on older devices / mobiles

Author: This image was updated in main. I will override local version with main.

          src="../../assets/img/smol_slime_stacked_schematic.webp"
          alt="Smol Slime (Stacked 🥪) Schematic"
          loading="lazy"
        />
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        Requires special firmware that provides power from the GPIO pins.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td>
      <td>
        <a href="https://youtu.be/qTmIfa_Asic">YouTube Building Tutorial</a> that covers soldering the IMU, battery, and button to the microcontroller board, as well as assembling the case. 
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## 📡 Receiver Hardware

> It is essential to use boards equipped with high-quality antennas to ensure signal integrity and range. Hardware featuring PCB antennas is generally the best option for use as a receiver.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is essential you use boards equipped with high-quality antennas to ensure signal integrity and range. Hardware that features a PCB antenna is generally the best option for use as a receiver.
```

### USB Dongles

These dongles have a fairly optimized PCB antenna. If you have issues with signal integrity, it is recommended to use a USB extension cable.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Dongle</th>
      <th>Description</th>
      <th>Obtaining</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>eByte Dongle (E104-BT5040U)</td>
      <td>
        Cheapest option with a PCB antenna.<br />

>         - <strong>E104-BT5040U</strong> is model that you need. It is fully

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - <strong>E104-BT5040U</strong> is the correct model to use. It is fully
```

        compatible with the Nordic Semiconductor nRF52840 Dongle.<br />
        - <strong>E104-BT5040UA</strong> is not compatible. It is only capable
        of capturing BLE4.2 and BLE5.0 protocol packets.
      </td>
      <td>
        It is available on AliExpress, with free shipping.<br />
        Also available on Alibaba, where sold by
        <strong>Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co., Ltd.</strong>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Nordic Semiconductor nRF52840 Dongle (PCA10059)</td>
      <td>Official Nordic development hardware.</td>
      <td>
        It is available on <strong>Digikey</strong> or <strong>Mouser</strong>.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Microcontrollers Modified Into USB Dongles

```admonish note

> If you plan to use microcontroller as receiver you can modify it to improve signal strength, replacing the built-in antenna with a 31.2 mm wire. This creates a basic monopole antenna.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you plan to use a microcontroller as receiver you can modify it to improve signal strength, replacing the built-in antenna with a 31.2 mm wire. This creates a basic monopole antenna.
```

```

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Board</th>
      <th>Description</th>
      <th>Obtaining</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>SuperMini nRF52840</td>

>       <td>It is a clone of the <strong>nice!nano</strong> board.</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      <td>A clone of the <strong>nice!nano</strong> board.</td>
```

      <td>
        Cheapest option overall.<br />

>         It is available on AliExpress with

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Available on AliExpress with
```
The main reason for this suggestion is this section started with "It is available" while the next starts with "Available". Consistency is important

        <code>compatible with nice!nano</code> or
        <code>Pro Micro</code> branding.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Seeed Studio XIAO nRF52840</td>
      <td>Compact board.</td>
      <td>
        Available on
        <span class="tooltip-text-container">
          Seeed Studio
          <span class="tooltip-text">
            <strong>Seeed Studio</strong> is a global open hardware
            manufacturer, offering electronics components, development boards,

>             and prototyping services. Their site:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            and prototyping services. Their site can be found at:
```

            <a href="https://www.seeedstudio.com/">Seeed Studio Site</a>.
          </span>
        </span>
        .
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## 🏃 Trackers

Before you start, decide on [how many trackers you may need](../../slimevr101.md#how-many-trackers-do-you-need).

Trackers are required to have a battery and an inertial measurement unit (IMU). A magnetometer is optional.\
Buttons and slide switches are recommended but not required. Buttons can be added to control the tracker, and a slide switch can be used to physically disconnect a tracker's battery.

### Microcontroller Boards

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Board</th>
      <th>Description</th>
      <th>Obtaining</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>SuperMini nRF52840</td>

>       <td>It is a clone of the <strong>nice!nano</strong> board.</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      <td>A clone of the <strong>nice!nano</strong> board.</td>
```

      <td>
        Cheapest option overall.<br />

>         It is available on AliExpress with

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
       Available on AliExpress with
```

   <span class="tooltip-text">Sensor driver has not been tested.</span>
  </div>
- <div class="tooltip-text-container">BMM350
   <span class="tooltip-text">Sensor driver has not been tested.</span>
  </div>
- IIS2MDC
- IST8306
- IST8308
- LIS2MDL
- <div class="tooltip-text-container">LIS3MDL
   <span class="tooltip-text">Sensor driver has not been tested.</span>
  </div>
- MMC5983MA

### 🟩 Sensor Modules with IMU and Magnetometer

##### Meia IMU + Magnetometer Modules

Meia, a member of the SlimeVR Discord, produces and sells IMUs with an onboard magnetometer suitable for stacked builds.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>IMU + Magnetometer</th>
      <th>Product Page</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href="../imu-comparison.md#ICM-45686">ICM-45686</a> + IST8306
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href="https://store.kouno.xyz/products/icm-45686-ist8306-module">
          store.kouno.xyz
        </a>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>LSM6DSR + IST8306</td>
      <td>
        <a href="https://store.kouno.xyz/products/lsm6dsr-ist8306-module">
          store.kouno.xyz
        </a>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### 🖲️ Buttons

> Push buttons and momentary switches are utilized to control the tracker. The functions of this button—Reset, Calibration, Pairing, Deep Sleep, and entering DFU Mode—depend on the number of press combinations. A tracker can be equipped with either a reset button, a user-specified (SW0) button, or both.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Push buttons and momentary switches are utilized to control the tracker. The functions of this button—Reset, Calibration, Pairing, Deep Sleep, and entering DFU Mode—depends on the number of press combinations. A tracker can be equipped with either a reset button, a user-specified (SW0) button, or both.
```
